- Authentication and Authorization.
  - Authentication: Is the way users are validated. For example Only valid users are allowed to access the website.
  - Autherization (also called as access management): If user got loged into website there might be some part you are not allowed to visit say you are watching instagram post you are not authorized to update my post that is what the authorization is.
- Three main tools developer uses to make sure that only authorised users can access the website.
  - API key
    - unique identifer for your server. The server will know from which application the request came from.
    - grant and restrict access to some api's.
      - ex: if you developed open api and you want to limit that API to get called only specific amount of times in given time frame then you can use this concept of API key.
  - ## Oauth [redirect url: https://localhost:3000/auth/google/callback]
    - client ID: 190014264218-g96e0133j555irhc6jjnj1r2enupro0k.apps.googleusercontent.com
    - client secrete: 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x
  - JWT: Are called as Access tokens. It uniquely identifies the users. JWT acts as a set of unique credentials for one specific user. We provide this access to user for calling our api.
    - Two widely used tokens are Opaque token and JWT token.
    - User log's in we pass JWT access token in the response. Now this token is kept with the (application/client-side) and each time when user sends a new request our server will **validate** it and send the response.
    - We send this JWT token under Authorization header.
    - Every JWT Token has three important parts
      - Header
      - Payload
      - Verify Signature
